---
type: post
title: JavaScript 1️⃣⭕1️⃣ - Arrow functions
date: 2022-08-21
tag: web development
description: JavaScript arrow functions explained
author: TheWisePigeon
---
import Comments from '../comment.js'
import Sub from '../sub.jsx'

Hi reader :), I'm back with a brand new post. Today I will be talking about JavaScript Arrow functions. They appeared with ES6. In case you don't know what ES6 is, Well it stands for ECMAScript and it was created to standardize JavaScript. So it's still the JavaScript language but with a different name.

 ES6 is it's 6th version. Arrow functions have no specific definitions. They are just a different way of writing regular functions. So, with that being said, let's get started.

## Arrow functions
Let's say we have this function that add up two numbers and returns the result.
```js
let sum = function(x, y){
    return x + y
}
```
If we were to write the same function using the arrow function way, it would look like this
```js
let sum = ( x, y ) => x + y
```
Notice how the keywords *function* and *return* are not present anymore. Arrow functions allow us to create functions in a cleaner way compared to regular functions. Their structure looks like this:

- The left hand: The parameter(s). Wrapped in parentheses or not. If we have a function with only one parameter, we do not have to wrap it in parentheses. We could just do the following
  ```js
  let double = x => x*2
  //regular function equivalent
  let double = function(x){
    return x * 2
  }
  ```
- The arrow: It represents the *return* keyword.
- The right hand: This is where the 'body' of the function resides. It can be written on multiple lines without or with braces.
  ```js
    let double = x =>
    x*2
    //or
    let double = x =>{
        return x*2
    }
  ```
  Notice how we put a *return* when we used curlies. Why is that? Well, arrow functions always return something. As we said before the **=>** symbol stands for the *return* keyword. If we wrote the function like this
  ```js
  let double = x=>{
    x*2
  }
  //console.log(double(3))
  >> undefined
  ```
The reason we get undefined is that nothing is getting returned in that case, `x*2` doesn't return anything because it's **a statement** and it's different from **an expression**.

In programming:
- A statement is a line of code that perform a specific task. A statement does not return anything.
- An expression is a piece of code that may be evaluated to determine it's value. And it does return that value.

If we take a look at what is going on from regular functions perspective, we will see exactly what is happening
```js
let double = x=> x*2
//its equivalent is the following
let double = x(){
    return x*2 //The function evaluate the value of x+2 and returns it
}
let double = x=>{
    x*2 //arrow function without the return keyword
}
//its equivalent 
let double = x(){
    x*2 //this function does not return anything.
        //That's why we would get undefined if we
        //printed it's result
        
}
```

So in case we have a function that does not just return a value, but instead, run some code before. we need to explicitly return the result of the operation.

That's it, pretty much everything you need to know to get started with arrow functions and start using them from now on. I hope you learned something new in this post. If I said something wrong please tell me in the comment sections. Until next time, stay safe and write code

<Sub />

<Comments />